I was offered five grand for a video but
this was when I was like 19. I was like
double it and I'll walk outside I'll
give it to homeless person and they're
like no you won't and it's like double
it and it's like pacing around my
neighbor for three hours convincing this
guy like on the phone just double the
money I promise the video will go viral
and I'll give it homeless person I was
like ten thousand dollars just looks
better in a title it'll get more views I
promise you your app will do better A
lot of times people oh boy it's like
they think their videos are better than
they are honestly and they tell Jimmy
tell it I mean they do that and they
have horrible friend groups because you
really are like the type of YouTubers
you hang around it's getting people with
the right YouTuber friend group that
aren't [ __ ] and will actually tell
them when their content is bad and like
actually roast it and and help them get
better in a nice positive way basically
what I did was I've somehow found these
other like four lunatics three of us
were College dropouts one was a high
school dropout and one I don't know he
just like quit his job we're all super
small YouTubers and we basically talked
every day for a thousand days in a row
and did nothing but just like hyper
study like what makes a good video what
makes a good thumbnail what what's good
pacing like how to go viral we would
just get on Skype every morning and like
some days like I'd get on Skype at 7am
and I'd be in the call until like 10 p.m
and then I go to bed I wake up and I do
it again we do things like take a
thousand thumbnails and see if like
there's a correlation to the brightness
of the thumbnail to have any views it
got imagine a world where it's just you
working solo and you work 12 hours a day
every day for like a year and you're
just grinding you make a mistake you
learn from it you grind you makes make
you learn from it and you do that for
like a year and then imagine a different
world where you have four friends who
are also equally grinding in something
similar Brand number one makes a mistake
on Friday he teaches the other four
people friend number two makes a mistake
the next week teaches everyone and then
like you're all learning from each
other's mistakes you're all constantly
studying 24 7 and downloading each other
like after a year you're like two years
ahead of the guy who was just solo do
you frequently go that far out of your
way to capture the thumbnail I mean of
course everyone should if people don't
click they don't watch so you you want
to give them something to click
something a lot of people forget is like
unsuggested on phones thumbnails are
really [ __ ] small so like people are
editing thumbnails full blown on their
computer and when you shrink it down you
can't see we tried it all around the
Above the Rest anyone can click babe but
you do actually like deliver on it we
say we put 100 million Orbeez in the
backyard we put 100 million Orbeez in
the backyard your title and thumbnail
set expectations like what you're saying
is like I like bananas and what you need
is bananas are the best goddamn food on
the planet like that's the type of
opinion you need like you need something
like how to get a hundred million views
on YouTube or not even that that's not
strong enough you need something that
makes people go what the [ __ ] what the
[ __ ] did he say in that video what the
[ __ ] I need to know at the very
beginning of the video to minimize
drop-offs you want to assure them that
those expectations are being met if
you're putting a million Orbeez in a
pool don't start the video with you
shopping for you know your mom's
birthday present at the beginning of the
video just say this is is 100 million
Orbeez We're Gonna Fill This pool and
this entire backyard with them match the
expectations and then you want to exceed
them so you want to assure people that
what they clicked on is what they're
getting and then blow their mind and be
like but you're also getting even more
anytime you say the word algorithm just
replace it with audience the algorithm
didn't like that video no the audience
didn't like that video if I wasn't
retaining a viewer just would it make
sense for you to promote it why would
you promote a 10 minute video that
people watch on average a minute and a
half I mean every video even the stupid
ones I learned something you know that's
something I'd try to make a very big
point of is like no matter how bad we
mess up like we sometimes have videos
that have horrible retention it's just
like as long as you learn from it it's
not the end of the world every YouTuber
says it it's like no one will ever be
able to replicate my style it's I gotta
edit it but news flash someone can it's
actually not as difficult as you think
it was good that I got a really strong
foundation on how YouTube works and how
the style of videos I wanted and
everything before I skilled up a team if
that makes any sense I just want to make
sure that's clear because I've seen
people try to build the team without
foundation and knowing how to do well I
I know that if we film this video it
will do well just because I've spent a
decade of my life hyper obsessing over
YouTube and I have a good pulse on it
but if you didn't have that then you
wouldn't know like you wouldn't be able
to spend four million dollars on a squid
game because you might lose 2 million
bucks and then you can't pay your people
but of course yeah if I didn't have
these people I couldn't do or half the
stuff I do for the last like eight or
nine years like every dollar I've made I
just spent it the next month in content
and I just did that every single month
and it just kept getting bigger and
bigger and here we are since I was 13
there probably hasn't been a single hour
that's gone by that I've been awake or I
haven't thought about YouTube like I'm
just focused on making the best videos
possible period I don't care about
making money I don't care about time I
don't care about I just want to make the
best videos on the planet literally all
the algorithm does is reflect what the
people want 280 and If you deny that you
just make terrible videos and are trying
to find a scapegoat we do our videos in
other languages as well if you Google it
it's like only whatever less than 10 of
the world speaks English so 90 of the
world can't even enjoy your content and
when I realized that I was like wait a
minute 90 of my the world can't even
watch this stuff like we just started
doing this like six months ago and it's
crazy like how viral some of these
videos are 51 million in Spanish the guy
who does my dubs is the same guy who
dubs Spider-Man we managed to convince
him so a lot of those comments are like
why does he sound like Spider-Man or is
Mr V Spider-Man to me what's important
is Click through eight getting people
click on your video and then average
iteration average view percentage or
just relative retention and you know
having to watch it a lot of creators
think click-through rate is just like
the title and thumbnail and did they
click it but a lot of it too is did they
enjoy your last video because if someone
watches a video of yours and they loved
it you can bet the next time you're
recommended their chance of clicking is
a lot higher you know sometimes we're
filming for three or four days like 10
hours a day you know 30 40 hours of
filming plus months of setup whereas
multiple creators probably filmed for a
couple hours and set up for a day
outside of just filming I mean we
brainstorm video ideas I mean
relentlessly hours every day am I always
doing all those things it just
distinctively sets it so far apart part
that it's basically in my head it's like
why would you not watch it viewers
aren't stupid they can tell when you you
know half ass I don't know if I'm
allowed to curse a video or if you like
really put an effort and like if they
can tell you're putting in a lot of
effort they're going to be more likely
to click on future videos and that type
that snowballs and because once you
build that trust they get to a point
where it doesn't matter what you upload
they just know it's high effort and they
just know it's great and they're just
conditioned just to watch because you
have a good track record and so with
filming it's just like trying to make
sure we're doing everything we can no
matter how expensive it is no matter how
much time it takes to make the best
video possible a lot of people if they
give away 100 Grand they would make a
huge deal about it but we're you know
sometimes we're just like yeah here's
100 Grand like thanks for watching bye
doing it that way makes it more fun and
just more interesting so I like to keep
a little bit of it mysterious because I
think that's what people enjoy a lot of
people aren't willing to put in 10 hours
days because they don't like what
they're doing so it's finding what they
enjoy because it is like a long grind
like you're doing this for years not
months so if you don't enjoy it then
you're gonna burn out I just said the
blessing of finding what I loved at a
young age so like because to get to this
level it takes you know a decade most
people don't find what they love until
they're young 20s so they'd be where I'm
at in their 30s I just walked out and
found it when I was really young living
your life chasing like a nicer nicer car
in a bigger and bigger box to live it's
kind of like a dumb way to go about life
I actually funny enough I lived in like
a super below average home and I kind of
learned why famous people don't live in
uh below average homes because someone
broke in stole everything out so I had
to I had to get a little nicer house for
security reasons but before I was robbed
I'd be like my place is like a little
duplex 700 a month you get a roommate's
360 split people think just because you
go for views means you can't have fun
but you can pool views and you can have
fun which is what we purposely try to do
if you're not doing something that's
just inherently fun to you you're just
quit just give up like you gotta at
least semi enjoy what you're doing or
you're gonna quit long before it gets to
the point where it brings them money or
whatever else could be driving you so
find what you love and then I would just
hyper obsess make sure no one doing what
you're doing is doing it better make
sure the videos are as good as possible
you can be motivated by more than one
thing I'm motivated because I want to
support my mom and my family I'm
motivated because I want to employ my
friends and help them I motivated
because I want to help other people I'm
motivated because I want to be a
YouTuber I want to be I mean I feel like
that's another misconception you can
have lots of things that drive you
absolutely yeah absolutely so I mean
like there's just tons of stuff that
drive me and everything drives me to
wanting to be a YouTuber so it kind of
obsess over it for the people that are
willing to be coachable I would say like
just education like there is a lot of
misinformation out there that like
people like live and Breathe by like the
weirdest stuff I gotta upload at
midnight on Wednesdays or my videos
don't do well it's like just dumb stuff
like that that just they don't realize
how badly they're like handicapping
themselves some minor tips I could give
is like somehow you could have a payoff
at the end then more people are going to
watch the end just to see what happened
whichever one of these 456 people
survives the longest wins 456 Grand cut
out all dull moments try not to over
explain and things my camera just sits
on me and I'm just talking for 20
seconds it doesn't hold retention as
well as you know maybe me talking and
other footage popping up it's much
easier to get 5 million views on one
video than 50 000 views on 100 videos it
takes way less effort to get 5 million
views in one video back then which I
think small YouTubers should do is I
would reply to every single comment and
so I think a few people caught on that
they would I would always reply and so
some people would just be like I wonder
how long it'll take for him to reply so
that was a lot of my comments when I was
smaller but at least it kept him coming
back in your analytics and most you
probably know this audience retention
you can see where people click off just
literally go through your last 50 videos
write down where everyone clicked off
and then just don't do those things
again but wait a minute Mr Beast what if
I don't know how to actually improve my
everyday duration how do I know where to
start what if I'm just a noob well in
order to better retain your viewers it's
first helpful to have a really deep
understanding of how they experience
YouTube to put yourself in their shoes
and in this video I explain five simple
steps that will help you do just that
check it out